# Sut Pitaara E-commerce Website

This is the official repository for the Sut Pitaara e-commerce website. It is built using the Django framework on the backend and the React library on the frontend with MySQL as the database.


## Tech Stack

### Backend
- Python
- Django
- Django REST Framework
- MySQL

### Frontend
- React
- JavaScript
- HTML
- CSS

## Backend Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Quinos2003/SutPitara.git

# Create a virtual environment
python3 -m venv env

# Activate the virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate (Linux/Mac) or .\.venv\Scripts\activate (Windows)

# Install Python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Apply database migrations
python3 manage.py migrate

# Run the development server
python3 manage.py runserver
```
The backend server will start at http://localhost:8000.

# Frontend Setup
```bash
# Navigate to the client directory
cd client

# Install JavaScript dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm start
```
The frontend development server will start at http://localhost:3000.

## Deploying to Production

To deploy the website to a production environment, follow these steps:

1. Build the frontend for production:

```bash
   cd client
   npm run build
```
This will create an optimized build of the frontend application.

2. Configure the Django settings for production by setting appropriate values for the database connection, static files, etc. Refer to the Django documentation for more information.

3. Set up a production-ready web server (e.g., Nginx, Apache) to serve the Django application.

4. Configure the web server to serve the built static files generated by the frontend build.

5. Configure the web server to proxy requests to the Django backend.

6. Start the web server and ensure it's accessible at the desired domain or IP address.

For more information about deploying a Django website, refer to the official Django deployment documentation.

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to the development of the Sut Pitaara website, please follow the guidelines in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
